{"id": 0, "text": "nmenon: oh wow... #gsoc!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 1, "text": "ayush1325: @Nishanth Menon Do you use the standard beagleplay config when buidling mainline? Do I need to copy the `firmware` from ti kernel?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 2, "text": "nmenon: i only use upstream defconfig", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 3, "text": "nmenon: if there are patches missing in defconfig in upstream, I post it there", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 4, "text": "nmenon: why do you need firmware? you are working on kernel. everything about firmware comes from beagle's build", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 5, "text": "nmenon: I think robert even releases an upstream based disk image if you want to play around (I dont use it though. i just use the standard beagle images and replace the kernel", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 6, "text": "ayush1325: I remember it complaining at me when I was using config from beagleplay /boot/config.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 7, "text": "nmenon: we dont use beagle's config in upstream \ud83d\ude09 - the only big thing that is missing is containers - beagle customizes to enable docker - upstream is independent of a specific container tech..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 8, "text": "ayush1325: @Nishanth Menon I have created a work branch (https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/tree/gb-beagleplay). booted into the kernel. but I am getting `Got Unknown Frame 65`  when loading the driver, which probably means the UART i am connected to is not the correct one.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 9, "text": "ayush1325: Ok, so it seems the driver is actually working. It's just that the upstream greybus cannot parse the manifest that bcf sends. I guess it is due to the extensions to manifest made for mikrobus. But the svc interactions work.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 10, "text": "nmenon: first levels of comments https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/commits/gb-beagleplay\n1. subject line: follow the convention of the files being touched - do git log --oneline file_name to see convention\n2. commit message should have more detailed commit message to explain to the reviewer why the change is needed etc.. \n3. the sequence of patches should be:\nDevice tree binding yaml binding\ndriver changes\ndts update", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 11, "text": "nmenon: https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/commit/d4ebd7c0aacb5db2a5827eea1ddbc95894cdf87e should be rolled up with the driver patch", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 12, "text": "nmenon: I doubt https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/commit/8b9326ec614d3d1ce6a2369b376b565aca66b8d7 is going to fly upstream. Device tree must describe hardware.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 13, "text": "ayush1325: The name should be descriptive or should it not be added to the device tree? I picked it up from ti kernel device tree.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 14, "text": "nmenon: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JrwZ4xLBU38&list=PLbzoR-pLrL6pY8a8zSKRC6-AihFrruOkq&index=15 watch this video", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 15, "text": "nmenon: https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/commit/237b8f449dd85bd821f4fd1f136720269743a251#diff-8dba146cc2d0e7c65771c9ce939c75b9dc568361253e8e0837b525eb50848355R5 -> You need to add Copyright (C) 2023  BeagleBoard.org Foundation -> @rcn-ee / @JKridner  comment on exact beagleboard.org foundation license to add", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 16, "text": "nmenon: https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/commit/237b8f449dd85bd821f4fd1f136720269743a251#diff-8dba146cc2d0e7c65771c9ce939c75b9dc568361253e8e0837b525eb50848355R242 no C++ comments in code", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 17, "text": "nmenon: TI tree does'nt support mikrobus \ud83d\ude09 - it was probably picked up from beagle kernel \ud83d\ude42", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 18, "text": "nmenon: https://gist.github.com/nmenon/bf15fc8c5df7d3380a71454e9ad37b58 -> output of kpv -C -V -L -n 3", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 19, "text": "nmenon: all the patches should pass the standard static checkers which is what kernel_patch_verify runs.. so your series is not ready for submission upstream \ud83d\ude26", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 20, "text": "nmenon: since you are working with linux-next https://gist.github.com/nmenon/bf15fc8c5df7d3380a71454e9ad37b58#file-kpv-c-v-l-n-3-L184 -> warnings that is coming in from other files, I'd ignore", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 21, "text": "ayush1325: Yes. I was fixing those one by one after having run them locally. I will push to the branch once they are fixed.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 22, "text": "nmenon: ok, good.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 23, "text": "ayush1325: I was more concerned about the fact that without mikrobus in upstream, the driver cannot be used with any actual bcf node.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 24, "text": "nmenon: That  is how we build a system up -> this needs to be clearly explained to folks what are these changes meant to bring in and why. how we are building the stack up. this is foundational layer.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 25, "text": "nmenon: So, cover-letter and commit message of the patch will need to be descriptive enough to explain. device tree binding has to be rather very strong to get past Rob/Krystoff/Connor", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 26, "text": "ayush1325: Yeah, I definitely need to add that. I didn't think mikrobus would be needed if I am not actually using mikrobus.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 27, "text": "nmenon: yeah - keep in mind that the people who  will review have no idea what beagleplay is. or  cc1352 is. unless they are convinced this is benefitting large userbase, it is a tough sell -> it is branded narrowly as beagleplay greybus extension.. which makes it harder to accept", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 28, "text": "ayush1325: Hmm. I have actually considered branding it as a generic greybus extension when we have SVC in a different co-processor with UART between them. The only device I currently know of which falls in this is beagleplay though.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 29, "text": "ayush1325: The SVC running code simply needs to be connected with UART, not even be in the same pcb if you really want to stretch it.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 30, "text": "nmenon: you have to sell it's potential to a wider base than beagleplay - that is key. and have documentation to explain how people can use it beyond beagleplay. that makes it more interesting to folks to review and accept.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 31, "text": "ayush1325: Thanks. Will definitely look into that.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 32, "text": "nmenon: i am not entirely sure where the staging drivers' device tree bindings go.. hmm..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 33, "text": "nmenon: funny to see greybus sitting in staging area after all these years!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 34, "text": "nmenon: given an option, i might have extended actual non-staging virtio framework instead..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 35, "text": "nmenon: sorry, did'nt mean to diminish your work.. just thinking aloud.. looking at this  for the first time.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 36, "text": "ayush1325: Sure. What did you mean by extending virtio framework? It seems interesting.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 37, "text": "nmenon: but yeah - in the cover-letter it will need to explain why existing virtio or other similar frameworks were not chosen and why grey-bus was the logical answer..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 38, "text": "nmenon: https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/next/driver-api/virtio/virtio.html", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 39, "text": "nmenon: anyways, thanks for putting the branch together.. it is much easier to see what is going on.. i gotta go now, kids are waking up.. gotta feed the little monsters \ud83d\ude09", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 40, "text": "ayush1325: Sure. Thanks for all your help. Will keep working on this in my free time.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 41, "text": "nmenon: np", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 42, "text": "ayush1325: @Nishanth Menon I have tried writing a dt schema: https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/commit/b8ef3d190256623426dd7913cb8d9c636bd14992. It doesn't seem to throw any eroros on running `make dt_binding_check DT_SCHEMA_FILES=beaglecc1352.yaml -j12` but well, I have no idea if it is what is expected.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 43, "text": "ayush1325: ```\nsubject line: follow the convention of the files being touched - do git log --oneline file_name to see convention\n```\nWhich commit are you referring to? The gb-beagleplay commit touches the Makefile, KConfig and gb-beagleplay. Should it instead say `greybus: gb-beagleplay:`?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 44, "text": "nmenon: Did u run kpv? It takes care of the checks. Directory path looks wrong", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 45, "text": "nmenon: Compatible. You just have one item. So just const: beagle, cc1352", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 46, "text": "nmenon: Also add an example dts to show. The main fight here is to explain why is this hardware definition", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 47, "text": "nmenon: As I said I want cc'ed on patches themselves, so wasn't able to give exact comments. But if you did do what I said on the files, you should see the pattern. The dts patch for example was definitely wrong.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 48, "text": "ayush1325: It should not go under `serial`?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 49, "text": "ayush1325: @Nishanth Menon Also, should I really cc lkml on all the patches even though I am sending to greybus mailing list and Ccing device tree ml?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 50, "text": "nmenon: Yes", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 51, "text": "nmenon: scripts/get_maintainers.pl will tell u the same thing", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 52, "text": "ayush1325: @Nishanth Menon I think `s/dev_warn/dev_warn_ratelimited` means substituting (at least in vimspeak)?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 53, "text": "nmenon: yup", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 54, "text": "ayush1325: Ok. I thought the ratelimit comment was about general ratelimiting and not logging.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 55, "text": "nmenon: his comment specifically was on dev_warn", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 56, "text": "ayush1325: Yeah. My mistake. I was't really aware about the ratelimited versions of logging to it never crossed my mind.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 57, "text": "nmenon: I think the most troublesome one is https://lore.kernel.org/all/937ea540-09e1-65f2-7165-662bbee2542b@kernel.org/", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 58, "text": "nmenon: I dont see any other greybus bindings in Documentation/device-tree/ ... so makes this a big challenge", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 59, "text": "ayush1325: Does a binding which resides in childnode (beaglecc1352 in our case) need to define the properties of the main device or parent (main_uart6)?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 60, "text": "ayush1325: Are there maybe any bindings that just introduce a compatible string and nothing more? Maybe that would be a good place to start? \nGreybus is now in stable, so it should at least be possible to add greybus bindings, if a bit hard", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 61, "text": "nmenon: no - wl1807 binding is it's own yaml file.\n\nWhat we could claim is 1352 as a binding..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 62, "text": "nmenon: so greybus is just the bus protocol it uses, but the main thing is dt describes how 1352 device integrates. NOTE: this might conflict with other approaches..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 63, "text": "ayush1325: Yes, it does seem like claiming it 1352 binding might end up being what needs to be done. I would still ask around in the patch thread to see if there are any better approaches.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 64, "text": "jkridner: I'm moving the ideas page for next year... help reviewing and editing appreciated: https://bbb.io/gsocideas", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 65, "text": "harshit6383: I want to contribute to gsoc can anyone suggest a good repo in beagle board before proposing any idea my language is javascript.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 66, "text": "harshit6383: Sorry if this question is very basic.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 67, "text": "harshit6383: Actually I was able to find project ideas but I need to submit some initial PRs before giving gsoc proposal for which I need to find initial repository to contribute.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 68, "text": "rcnee: Fun opps on mainline (6.6-rc1) ```[   12.687223] gb_beagleplay serial0-0: Using baudrate 115200```", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 69, "text": "rcnee: https://git.beagleboard.org/RobertCNelson/arm64-multiplatform/-/tree/v6.6.x-arm64-k3/patches/gb-beagleplay might be behind...", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 70, "text": "ayush1325: Hmm. The patch 3 seems to be missing: https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/commit/63fe6da2be2472133565de8f23ef92d710eb5d84. I also have more NULL checks since that patch. I will check out if I can reproduce it on my local tree.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 71, "text": "rcnee: Oh patch 3 got moved into the DT changes repo..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 72, "text": "ayush1325: Yeah. It will stay on 3 patches from now (as far as I can tell).", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 73, "text": "rcnee: https://git.beagleboard.org/beagleboard/BeagleBoard-DeviceTrees/-/blob/v6.6.x/src/arm64/k3-am625-beagleplay.dts", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 74, "text": "rcnee: I had other DT changes, it was easier the changing patch 3 again and again", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 75, "text": "ayush1325: Sure. the mainline and beagle kernel dt are different so I am not sure if you could directly apply the patch anyway. Although the dt name will change again from all the feedback I have got.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 76, "text": "ayush1325: So how much of CC1352 do I need to describe in dtbindings? The Kernel docs say you should describe the complete device so I guess I should use the complete binding from zephyr/dts (modified for linux since the zephyr dt schema seems quite different), and define cc1352 as an soc. \nAlso should it be `ti,cc1352` or `beagle,cc1352`?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 77, "text": "ayush1325: @JKridner @Nishanth Menon As outlined in the mailing list by Jason (https://lists.linaro.org/archives/list/greybus-dev@lists.linaro.org/message/ZLH5INCQPV3YEYMVCW4V2R5CDMHFQOOA/), I think branding it as BeagleConnect would be a good option. \nThis would mean having bindings in `Documentation/devicetree/bindings/firmware/beagle,beagleconnect.yaml` and allow future additions as BeagleConnect instead of being tied to beagleplay. The driver can be renamed as `gb-beagleconnect`.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 78, "text": "nmenon: dt bindings needs to be hardware", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 79, "text": "ayush1325: The dt bindings under `Documentation/devicetree/bindings/firmware/` seem to be more related to firmware running on top of soc than the device itself. Like `amlogic,meson-gxbb-sm.yaml` seems to be used to identify `Amlogic Secure Monitor (SM)` and has a single required compatibilty or `nvidia,tegra186-bpmp.yaml` for BPMP processor in nvidia gpus.\nWe can describe cc1352 as the beagleconnect or svc processor in case of beagleplay device rather than any generic cc1352.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 80, "text": "nmenon: https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/arch/arm64/boot/dts/nvidia/tegra194.dtsi#n1723 for example is tied to a specific hardware", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 81, "text": "nmenon: you need to describe the hardware and then properties or subnodes (such as links) OR you will need to go via actual h/w call path - such as smc (secure monitor call) https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/arch/arm64/boot/dts/freescale/imx8ulp.dtsi#n169", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 82, "text": "nmenon: simplest will be to link it as cc1352 and then extend the description as a link property", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 83, "text": "nmenon: it will fly better with the maintainers as \"generic\" devices are strictly frowned upon", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 84, "text": "ayush1325: What is a link property? Do you mean `links` which seems to allow pointing to a label? I guess what you are suggesting is something like the following:\n```dts\n&main_uart6 {\n  links = <&cc1352_uart>;\n  ...\n}\n\n&cc1352 {\n   cc1352_uart {\n     compatibile = \"something\";\n   }\n  ...\n}\n```", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 85, "text": "nmenon: PHandle, not literally links property", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 86, "text": "ayush1325: @Nishanth Menon Should I place cc1352 bindings under `soc/ti`? or maybe create a new folder for `beagle`?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 87, "text": "nmenon: typically we dont. soc/ti are for description of the entire SoC. wllink power ICs etc go their specific folders", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 88, "text": "ayush1325: Hmm. Won't we have to categorize CC1352 as an SoC? Although I guess categorizing it as SoC would mean having to describe the complete hardware (even the parts not being used) according to docs.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 89, "text": "ayush1325: @Nishanth Menon What resources would need to be added to the dt bindings?  Krzysztof mentioned this: \"By resources I mean whatever is needed to power it up and operate, e.g. clocks, supplies, reset lines.\". But well, I am not sure if anything other than compatible is needed for cc1352p7 as an mcu", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 90, "text": "ayush1325: Also, it was suggested to use `ti,cc1352p7` as the device name. Since this is not a full SoC (I think?), it should probably go into `arm` There is a `arm/ti` folder as well so should it be put there?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 91, "text": "nmenon: You will need things like reset lines etc.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 92, "text": "nmenon: I thought I explained previously", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 93, "text": "ayush1325: Reset lines refers to RESET_IN in data sheet right?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 94, "text": "nmenon: Yes. There will be clocks etc", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 95, "text": "nmenon: Look at a peripheral on uart as an example", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 96, "text": "ayush1325: You mentioned that they go to their specific folders, but well, I am not sure if `cc1352p7` is a net mcu or a generic arm mcu. And there are other `cc1352p*` and `cc1352r*`, so not sure if that changes anything.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 97, "text": "nmenon: You need to look at it as a peripheral, not a processor view", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 98, "text": "nmenon: think that cc1352p7 is not programmable. it is a ROMed peripheral", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 99, "text": "nmenon: now, what does cc1352p7 need to talk to SoC from SoC's perspective - remember the description is agnostic of beagleplay. even iMX8 should be able to interface with it", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 100, "text": "nmenon: it has a clock, reset lines, may be power supplies..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 101, "text": "nmenon: you would start from https://www.ti.com/product/CC1352P7", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 102, "text": "ayush1325: Thanks, will start there", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 103, "text": "nmenon: supplies, reset, osc clock - correct?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 104, "text": "nmenon: DT is hardware description -> so using Documentation/devicetree/bindings/net/wireless/ti,wlcore.yaml as an example..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 105, "text": "nmenon: See these examples: https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/devicetree/bindings/net/wireless/ti%2Cwlcore.yaml - it can interface with mmc, spi among other options..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 106, "text": "nmenon: Rather curious case here though - if cc1352p7 is a peripheral - it has a different dt view compared to zephyr trying to describe cc1352p7 in device tree, where it is the processor view!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 107, "text": "ayush1325: @Nishanth Menon I have added `reset-gpios` and `vdds-supply` (https://github.com/Ayush1325/linux/blob/f131506ea930b12f8794b168f580c8dbe99780f9/arch/arm64/boot/dts/ti/k3-am625-beagleplay.dts#L874). I referred to design docs (https://docs.beagleboard.org/latest/boards/beagleplay/03-design.html) for connections. Should I send a new patch or wait for feedback on `gb-beagleplay` driver?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 108, "text": "nmenon: I am out on vacation this week. I can respond next week.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 109, "text": "ayush1325: Sure, no problem.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 110, "text": "vaibhav210603: Hello, I am Vaibhav\nI am new to open source and seeking for a guidance/mentorship to contribute here.\nI have been working on Js for a while now and currently learning react.js\nwould be really glad and grateful for a response", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 111, "text": "somismyuserid: hi", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 112, "text": "somismyuserid: how can i start contributing ??", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 113, "text": "jkridner: https://forum.beagleboard.org/t/gsoc-ideas/35850", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 114, "text": "jkridner: I need this updated for 2024!!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 115, "text": "jkridner: _waves to @av500_", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 116, "text": "melta101: can we provide any ideas or are they exclusive to specific people?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 117, "text": "av500: waves to @JKridner", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 118, "text": "jkridner: hi @av500 !!!!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 119, "text": "jkridner: @melta101 idea away!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 120, "text": "melta101: i was thinking of implementing a library to access cpufreq  so it will be easier for other dev to create solution tailored to the required compute power efficiently", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 121, "text": "nmenon: Why override kernel governor? please dont introduce systemd into this world.. \ud83d\ude26 oh no..... rather if governors of cpufreq can be made better it helps everyone.. unless you are thinking some sort of extension of powertop or the like..", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 122, "text": "melta101: yea, something like an extension of powertop", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 123, "text": "melta101: ah also, one thing which i wanted to do was design a HMI cape, makes it less problematic, carrying a laptop for it", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 124, "text": "melta101: so designing a lib for it,along the line...", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 125, "text": "dhruvag2000: Beagleboard mentors meetup in Mumbai \ud83d\ude03\nHad a great time over some slices of pizza and got to see some great fellow mentors and students in person!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 126, "text": "jkridner: Time to get started with GSoC. Interested? Contact me. Share your project ideas at https://bbb.io/gsocideas!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 127, "text": "melta101: hello,\ni would like share one of my ideas\nbut the link shows invalid", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 128, "text": "anujdeshpande: @melta101  - https://old.beagleboard.org/gsocideas", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 129, "text": "melta101: Thank you", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 130, "text": "jkridner: @melta101 I didn't see a post from you.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 131, "text": "jkridner: I posted https://forum.beagleboard.org/t/low-latency-risc-v-i-o-cpu-core/37156", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 132, "text": "dhruvag2000: https://blynk.io/blog/blynk-ncp-integrated-with-zephyr-rtos?utm_source=linkedin&utm_medium=smm&utm_campaign=features&utm_content=zephyr\n\n\n@lorforlinux  could this give way to blynk + BCF or Bplay kind of an integration?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 133, "text": "melta101: Hello @JKridner \ni have been going to the repo\ncould you suggest some ideas where I can contribute to improving the existing system\nI have worked with SDRs and also majorly worked on device driver development on multiple SBCs such as beaglebone Black", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 134, "text": "melta101: i see amazing possibilities in beagle V Fire in SDR development", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 135, "text": "melta101: a SDR solution for Beaglebone for at least sub Ghz as a starting point", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 136, "text": "melta101: creating a solution to integrate GNUradio and beaglebone", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 137, "text": "jkridner: I'd suggest targeting BeagleV-Fire.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 138, "text": "jkridner: There are some existing BeagleBone SDR capes that might be worth exploring. LimeSDR.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 139, "text": "jkridner: KiwiSDR", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 140, "text": "melta101: during my time with SDR and gnu radio \nthere was no direct support for KiwiSDR and GNURadio\nluckily there are OE SDKs with GNU Radio for embedded devices", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 141, "text": "melta101: and having an FPGA in fire actually helps in parallel processing the IQ signals", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 142, "text": "melta101: the problem i see is with the supply of kiwiSDR in my location", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 143, "text": "melta101: https://forum.beagleboard.org/t/sdr-toolkit-integration-to-beaglebone/37177\ni am welcome to sugeestion as this is new to me.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 144, "text": "jkridner: @melta101 you put me as a mentor. would you not mentor?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 145, "text": "jkridner: I really hate discord.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 146, "text": "jkridner: is there no way to get public logs of channels?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 147, "text": "melta101: There should be an option \"moderator log\"", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 149, "text": "melta101: As I am relatively new to to open source contribution\nI'll wouldn't think being a mentor would be a good idea\n\nBut I do want to get kick off this project\nI do have a general layout on how to proceed", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 150, "text": "jkridner: I see \"audit log\", but not a general channel chat log.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 151, "text": "dhruvag2000: @JKridner iiuc you want something like our IRC chat logs but for discord?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 152, "text": "dhruvag2000: Somewhere externally hosted logs that any non discord user can just go and read passively?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 153, "text": "jkridner: yes!", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 154, "text": "jkridner: at least for this channel.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 155, "text": "melta101: https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/audit-log#:~:text=Viewing%20audit%20logs%20requires%20the,are%20stored%20for%2045%20days.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 156, "text": "melta101: Audit log has param to add set of users", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 157, "text": "dhruvag2000: I find some browser extensions and stuff for this\nhttps://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/discord-chat-exporter-bac/lljknccjfgeihgdboidlkoofdknieffm\n\nBut idk how to push to some online server @JKridner", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 158, "text": "jkridner: \ud83d\ude26", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 159, "text": "jkridner: I hate discord", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 160, "text": "jkridner: Almost as much as I hate slack.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 163, "text": "jkridner: I'm nearing burnout for the day already. Trying to get the GSoC stuff setup is a nightmare and I seem to have no help.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 164, "text": "melta101: If there is anything I can help\nI can offer you any help", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 165, "text": "jkridner: @lorforlinux can I get updates to https://forum.beagleboard.org/t/gsoc-ideas/35850#general-requirements-5 for a Zephyr-based requirement?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 166, "text": "jkridner: @melta101 please review all the info I post and let me know if there are confusing gaps.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 169, "text": "melta101: @JKridner could you pin the proposal template\nrest all seems fine", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 174, "text": "jkridner: @lorforlinux are you working on this today. I really want to put our application in.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 177, "text": "andrearosetti: Hello, I am a 3rd year electronic engineering student at Politecnico di Milano, Italy. I would like to participate to GSoC 2024. I don't know if I have the skills needed for it but I want to give it a try. How do I get started?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 178, "text": "dhruvag2000: https://buff.ly/3SA0puF\n\nWondering how much effort this would be on beagleplay or something?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 180, "text": "andrearosetti: Hi, can I contact you to have information on how to prepare for GSoC?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 181, "text": "jkridner: This is where we connect! What questions do you have? Please don\u2019t reach out privately\u2014that isn\u2019t how this works. We engage as a community. Feel free to mention me to get my attention.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 182, "text": "jkridner: @lorforlinux this connection doesn\u2019t seem as easy for ideas on gsoc.beagleboard.io and those are out of date. I am fine to put proposals there, but let\u2019s stick to moving the ideas to the forum. We can link and organize on gsoc.beagleboard.io, but they should live on the forum.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 183, "text": "andrearosetti: @JKridner thank you, I wasn't sure on how this works. Sorry for the following naive questions, I am a total beginner. So, I understand the first thing to do is looking for ideas on the forum, doing some research and trying to expand them into proposals. How do I know if they are not already being taken? Do they all require experience with Linux? In that case, what in particular?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 184, "text": "jkridner: no problem. i\u2019ll just give frank answers. total beginners welcome.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 185, "text": "jkridner: doesn\u2019t matter if an idea is taken. what matters is how you connect with that idea. selection is based on proposal quality and community engagement.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 186, "text": "jkridner: Preexisting experience with Linux is not required, but likely needs to be developed.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 187, "text": "lorforlinux: For sure, gsoc site has no way to chat thus forum is the best place for all the discussion.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 188, "text": "lorforlinux: @JKridner Sorry missed your message. did you submit our application?", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 189, "text": "lorforlinux: @here New GSoC site: https://gsoc.beagleboard.io/", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 190, "text": "lorforlinux: We will be sharing a proposal template and guide to easily create a proposal on the new site. For discussion on ideas please visit https://forum.beagleboard.org/", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 191, "text": "ayush1325: Looks amazing. Really liking the new theme.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 193, "text": "jkridner: oops, wrong channel.", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 194, "text": "melta101: @lorforlinux we could add a list of mentors with their discord or forum nametag in the new site", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 195, "text": "dhruvag2000: Indeed I do too", "source": "#gsoc"}
{"id": 197, "text": "gagana0385: yes please, that would be helpful. I am very much interested in one of the project ( RISC-V Based PRU on FPGA) and want to get in touch with the mentors for more guidance.", "source": "#gsoc"}
